
Text removed from dippa:


\paragraph{MicroRNA function and role in disease}


Additionally, it has been
found that specific miRNA precursors, but not the mature miRNAs, are
consistently aberrantly expressed in some cancers, suggesting that the
precursors have some unidentified regulatory functions \citep{Calin2004}.
%% En löytänyt tälle väitteelle selkeitä perusteita Calin2006 viittauksista (tuossa siis väitetään näin) 


MicroRNAs themselves are regulated by several different mechanisms, similarly
to mRNA and gene expression. Possible control points include transcription of
genomic miRNAs, post-transcriptional modification of pri- and pre-miRNAs,
JATKA LISTAA. MiRNAs also form transcriptional feedback loops with proteins
that act as transcription factors (TFs) for miRNAs. For example, JOKU TÄHÄN JA
KUVA SIITÄ. Some of these regulation mechanisms have a known important
biological function, such as miR-XXX and miR-XXX which function as a cell fate
switch, determining the differentiation of ASF.

Dysregulation of microRNAs can happen at any of these putative regulation
steps, and many, if not all, of them have been implicated in tumorgenesis.
Examples of this include LISTAA. There are also additional mechanisms that can
lead to miRNA dysregulation, such as mutations in the miRNA sequence or the
target mRNA sequence, genomic rearrangements,
\textbf{LISÄÄ?}. The role of miRNAs in cancer has recently been
thoroughly reviewed by FOO-ET-AL \citep{CITE}.

It has also been shown in knock-out experiments that inhibiting the microRNA
biogenesis pathway is lethal in many species \citep{CITE} and, further, that
perturbing miRNA biogenesis often leads to tumor formation \citep{CITE}. This
highlights the importance of microRNAs and their regulatory function.






\paragraph{MicroRNAs and cancer}

and it has been shown that the deregulation of even a
single miRNA can lead to cancer \citep{Costinean2006}.

% YHDISTELTYJA MUDESTA

As in on other cancers, miRNAs are suggested to participate in many ways in
breast cancer development, progression and both treatment sensitivity and
resistance. 

Dysregulation of miRNA in breast and other cancers can occur through several
mechanisms. These include variation in miRNA sequence, in target mRNA
sequence, and epigenetic regulation by DNA methylation or histone modification
\citep{Melo2011}. The much studied miRNA
variation in breast cancer is miRNA-196a2. This rs11614913 variation has been
suggested to associate with breast cancer risk and a meta-analysis concluded
that such an association exists between breast cancer risk and this variation
\citep{Gao2011}. Another miRNA that has been
associated (although this halso also been disputed), with breast cancer risk
is miR-453. The variation, however, is not located in the miRNA sequence, but
in the target sequence of estrogen receptor alpha and has been suggested to
associated with a lower breast cancer risk \citep{Tchatchou2009}. miRNA
dysregulation may also take place through changes in the biogenesis of miRNA.




\subsubsection{Experimental target discovery}

MicroRNAs have been the
subject of a large number of laboratory experiments in recent years. Many of these have
uncovered new miRNA-target interaction pairs (MTIs) and confirmed
previously suspected ones. However, experimental identification of miRNA targets
is labor intensive and costly, because of the large number of microRNAs
and their possible targets.

Validated microRNA targets refer to miRNA-target pairs that have
been validated in biological experiments. Common methods for validation
studies include using cultures of cell lines and introducing exogenous miRNAs
or suppressing endogenous ones. The effect of microRNAs is often elucidated
through measurements of mRNA, miRNA and protein expression and varying
technologies have been used for this \citep{Akhtar2016}.

There exist several public databases that list currently known experimentally
validated microRNA targets. The databases are collected and curated from
relevant published miRNA experiments and most provide freely available data
downloads. DIANA-TarBase is the largest of such databases and contains over
half a million MTIs \citep{Vlachos2015}. It was last updated in 2014.
miRTarBase is another comprehensive database and includes 4966 articles
containing 7439 strongly validated MTIs and and 348 007 MTIs from crosslinking
and immunoprecipitation sequencing (CLIPseq) studies . The
latest update of miRTarBase was in 2015.

Experimental identification of miRNA tagets is laborous, as mentioned above



